Sir, many times you people ask the question whether to
take a big base health insurance policy or base and super top up.  Which one
is beneficial, which one is harmful, which one
should be taken?  We all understand that
our sum insured should be higher.  The
insurance cover should be higher
because there is health inflation, there is price rise,
treatment cost is going to increase and has
already increased.  So for this the sum insured should be
increased.  But the biggest
question arises whether to take a bigger sum insured base
or take a super top
up policy along with the base.  We will talk about this
in detail.  I will tell you both the pros and cons,
benefits and disadvantages and in the
end we will
also talk about the premiums.  So stay till the end of the video.  This is going to be a
very useful video.
If you are stuck in this dilemma and
this question is yours too.
Before starting the video, I would like to
introduce myself.  My name is
Gurleen Goo.  I am a Certified Financial
Planner.  I have been associated with the insurance industry for the last 20 years
and every week I
bring videos for you so that
your insurance buying journey becomes easy and
happy.  Because the tagline of our company is
also Creating a Wealth of
Happiness.  Let's talk about base and super
top up policies.  First let us
understand what is a base policy and
what is a super top up policy.  Base, as
we can understand, is the base policy, which means
your starting policy, which is your base
cover, which is a comprehensive coverage
policy, which means everything is
covered in it, like your non-payable
items, like there
is no restriction on room rent, day care procedures,
pre-post hospitalization expenses,
AYUSH treatment, organ donor transplant, everything is
covered in your comprehensive
base policy, so you decide the sum in the base policy,
5, 10, 15, 20, 50,
whatever sum assured you want and
higher sum assured is also included in it.  This means that options up to Rs 1 crore,
2 crore, 3 crore are also available.
And some policies have now
also introduced unlimited sum assured options for the base
policy.  The second type of policy is Super
Top Up.  Now what is Super Topup?  Basically
a top up on your base.  So with Super
Topup, basically you are enhancing your sum assured
with an
additional policy.  So it is an individual
independent policy over and above your base
policy.  That's the top up cover.  Meaning it
must have a deductible.  Super top up
means that if you take a policy of Rs 40 lakh
then Rs 10 lakh is deductible.  This means that
you will not get the first Rs 10 lakh from that policy.  If
any claim comes on that, Super Top Up will
pay you.  Second example: Suppose you have
taken a super top up policy of Rs 25 lakh with Rs 5
lakh deductible.  So you will not get the first 5% from the Super Top Up
policy.  But
you can claim Rs 25 above that.  So
always super top up will come with a deductible.
Now what is this deductible?  Deductible is your
initial amount which you can take from the base policy
or if you have a corporate
policy then you can take it from there also
or if you agree that I will pay from my pocket
then you can pay from your pocket also.
So basically the insurance company is
making a contract with you that we will
not give the first 5 lakhs and will give 25 lakhs on top of that in a policy of Rs 25 lakhs.  Only
then its premium is also lower.
So it's a top up combination.  So
generally people also take a combination of super topup and base.
So now the question
arises that if you want to take insurance of Rs 50 lakh.
Suppose you have decided that a
cover of Rs 50 lakh is the adequate cover for you
depending on your location, depending on
your family size, depending on your pre-
existing conditions, depending on your
family medical history.  On top of that you
decided that I want a cover of Rs 50.
Now how will I get this cover of Rs 50 lakh?
You can either take a single base policy of ₹
lakh or you can take a base and super top-up.  You can
take this combination of base of Rs 10 lakh and super top up of Rs 40 lakh.
More combinations can be made.  I
kept the simple combination which is the most used
combination so that you know it is easier
to compare.  But both the policies have some
advantages and some disadvantages.  So today we will
understand in detail what it is.  The first point which is the
base policy is that it is a comprehensive
policy.  She has you covered at every end.
You will not have to worry about what you will get and what you will
not get in the policy.
Base policies generally come with any room
coverage.  Meaning you can take any room.  There is
no room rent capping, no
restrictions.  It is not like that you will get
1%, 2% of the room or you will get a single
private AC room.  The entire
claim will be given in the base policy.  Secondly,
in the base policy generally all your things are covered.
Like the expenses that you incur
for going to the hospital like
ambulance expenses, expenses that
occur in the hospital which are inpatient
expenses and expenses that occur
after coming home from the hospital which is post
hospitalization expenses.  So
holistically you are covered for everything.  There are
also some expenses
like non-payable expenses.  Consumable
expenses like gloves, masks, PP
kits etc.
can be included as a rider in the base policy or are
also inbuilt in the base policy.  And there are some add-ons
which you can take like riders which are available over the base policy.
Took OPD rider as you wish.  You want
maternity coverage rider,
infinite cover.  You want my cover to be
infinite.  You want unlimited restore cover.
Anything you want, you
can add as an add-on to the base policy.  Now let's
come to the super topper.  So in Super Topup
you know that there is compulsory deductible.  The base
policy has ventilation.  You
can take it if you want.  Small Deduct to Reduce the
Cost.  But there is compulsory deductible in super top up.  Which
means the first amount will have to be
paid from some other policy or from your own pocket.  And as far as rooms are concerned,
generally the super top up policies
come with the restriction of single private AC room.
Meaning if you
went to the hospital.  So let me tell you about single private AC
room.  Generally this is the
base room that is available in the hospital.
If the hospital says that single room
category is not available with me.  If it is deluxe or
suite then it will be covered in the base policy
but when you go to cover it in the super topper policy then there will be
restrictions there.
Now you have taken the combination of
10 + 40.  Now the bill has come, let's say for 20
lakhs.  So you had
no restrictions on 10 levels.  You were
taking the entire claim.  But if a claim of Rs
20 lakh is made above the amount of Rs 10 lakh, then there will be a
restriction on the above Rs 10 lakh.  We will give as much room as is allowed and
as much eligibility as possible.
You will have to pay the rest from your pocket.
This restriction will be applicable in Super Topper.  Many
super top-up policies do not have ambulance cover.
Super top up policies do
not cover consumables which are non-payable items.
Most of the super top-ups don't cover that.  So
if you are using two combinations
of 10 plus 40, then in that case, you will not get the consumable covers on the
amount of super top-up from where
you are taking the claim through super top-up.
A Super Topup does not include your No Claim Bonuses.
You do not get any no-claim bonus.
Super Topup basically eliminates your annual
hair checkup.  Super Topper does
not have the concept of unlimited restore refills.
So Super Topper is basically an efficient and
economical way to enhance your sum
assured.  You know you need more cover.
But at the same time you can't afford
higher premium and you don't want to pay higher
premium to the insurance policy.  And you are
okay with a simple basic coverage.  So Super
Topup is for them.  If you take a single base policy then
it is a single policy.  There is a
single policy of Rs 50 lakh which will have to be given to the hospital.
Base plus super top-up are
two separate policies.  There is a base policy
and a super top up policy.  So if any
claim comes, you have to give the base policy as well
and if that base policy gets exhausted then you have to
give the super top-up also.  Generally no issue arises
in the hospital.  Recently we
claimed base and super top up together.   There was no
problem in
principle but I got a little stuck
in explaining to the insurance company
and the hospital that
this is a different policy.  The hospital was like whether
you should take reimbursement even though it was
from the same company.  If you have a
base policy with X company, then the super topper should also ideally
be from the same company as settlement becomes easy.
Otherwise, if your base
is of one company, Super Topper company, then
what will happen there?  That company will ask for
claim settlement letter from the X company
that first they should give it and then we will settle the claim.
So in all likelihood, the super
top-up claim may go towards reimbursement.  So
it is better that if you are taking the second option
which is a combination of base and
super top up, take a combo from the same
company which has the base and
super top up claim from the same company, that is better.  So here
I have done some
calculations as an example.  If you take a single base
policy.  This is calculated on the age of the individual.
Zone One's premium
is Without Any Writers.  Now you
take an individual policy from Lets.  There is a cover of 50 lakhs
, it is a comprehensive cover and the
premium comes to Rs 25,000.  Now if we look at the base and
super top up, we take the base for Rs 10
lakh and the super top up for Rs 40 lakh.   The
base premium is approximately
₹14,000 and the super top up premium is ₹889.  So the
combination formed here is
costing you
₹1,483.  So here you will see that there is a
difference in the premiums of both.  Where you are
taking straight forward base or base
plus super top up.  If you buy only the base, the
base will be expensive.  Because it is
comprehensive coverage, it is a single policy.   There is nothing to
think about.  It's a no-brainer.  Just give one
policy to the hospital and all the work is done.
And as I told you, restore
is also available on the base pay, there are no claim bonuses,
boosters and so on.  If you
take the combination of Super Topup and Base, then
all the benefits you will get will be available only on the base amount of
₹1 lakh that you are taking as base.  The
super top up of Rs 40 lakh will
not get all those benefits.  So that is why the
premium for 10L is ₹14,000 and the
premium for Super Topup is around ₹800.  So that is why the
premium difference between the two is
because it is a combination of base and that base plus super topup.
Now you can see
what is the priority for you?  You want to have
a single policy which I can give when I
go to the hospital and the whole thing is over.
Suppose you as a primary member
is hospitalized, then you may think that
perhaps the family members will not be able to handle it.
So in that case it is a good thing to have a single base policy.
So take a bigger single base policy.
And in the second case where
you feel that no, I do
not want a high premium.  I also
want premium control in the long term.  C Super Topup
premiums are currently low.  Because there are
not many claims in Super Topup.
In the coming time, when claims come in Super Topup,
their premiums will also increase.   For
example, premiums for base policies
increase significantly.  So right now it is less but there is
no guarantee that it will remain less in the future also.
Of course, if it is with deductible then the
premium will be less but
I will not be able to comment on how much less it will be.
Secondly, there is another point of view that if
you have taken a base policy of say Rs 50 lakh.  Then also I would
suggest that add
a super top up.  Now you can see that here
you are getting a super top up of ₹40 lakh for just ₹800.
So what's the harm?  Even if
you pay ₹25,000 for the base policy and
₹800 for the super top-up, it will
act as a backup.  If there is any major
hospitalization,
you can use both the policies.  At least it means
you will definitely get some claim.  So you can
assume that through Super Topup you will
get 95-96% claim amount instead of 100.
If you are prepared for that.  If you
prepare yourself mentally then I
think it is a beautiful tool.  And you can see this and
analyze for yourself which
combination works best for you. So this
is just an illustration.  You can calculate it on your age.  You
can calculate it for your family.  And
accordingly you can take the call.  So this was all
from my side talking about base and
base plus super topper which is better and
why.  So whatever questions you have, please
share them in the comment section.  You may want to reach out
to our team for buying policy
consultation.  Reach out on the given number.  The
number is given here.  There is also a WhatsApp number
and a link to a Google form
that you can fill out.  Our team will connect you.
Quick reminder before leaving, if
you haven't subscribed to our channel yet,
do it so that you get the
right information at the right time. See you
in the next video. Stay safe, take care, bye bye.